# IBMCloud Tests


## Overview



This project's objective is to set up some testing for IBM Cloud.

## Requirements

This project was intended to work with python 3.6. A list of required libraries can be found on "requirements.txt" file.
 
* behave
* selenium
* webdriver-manager

This means all required libraries can be installed from the project path using:
```sh 
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
## About the project

On the 'core' folder we intend to put generic steps and functions that can be used on any UI/API testing. 

## Setting Up 

After filling all these field you can change the configuration file name "config.dist" -> "config.json". 
Once we do this we are good to go for some testing.

To run features you have to go to the project path and run:
```sh 
behave ibmcloud/ui/features --verbose
```
To run only features marked with a certain tag like "@acceptance" or "@functional":
```sh 
behave ibmcloud/ui/features -t acceptance
behave ibmcloud/ui/features -t functional
```
You can check the behave for better understanding of the tool, [click here](https://behave.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).


## IBM Cloud GUI Testing
Go to "ibmcloud/ui" folder inside the project directory.
There you will find a "config.dist" file (Configurations are based on json file format). 
This file contains all the configuration that will be used for the GUI testing.
It should be filled as indicated:

* "BROWSER": The browser we will use for testing (e.g. "firefox", "chrome").
* "INITIAL_PAGE": This is the initial login page: "https://dev.console.test.cloud.ibm.com/". 
* "PREFIX": This prefix will be used on all created projects and also to delete all data that was generated by testing tool (e.g. "BSS03").
* "USER": This is a list of users. By default it expects one owner. 
You must use a correct account username/email and password.

To check all GUI tests you can run the command on project directory:
```sh 
behave ibmcloud/ui/features
```

## Generate the Report (Pending)

To generate the report make sure have installed the following:
```sh 
allure-behave
allure 2.12.1
java 1.8.0_201
```
You can check the folllowing link [click here](https://docs.qameta.io/allure/#_get_started) for doing that.

Then on terminal execute these commands:
```sh 
behave -f allure_behave.formatter:AllureFormatter -o ./ibmcloud/api/allure/results ./ibmcloud/api/features
allure serve ./ibmcloud/api(allure/results
```
Finally a web page with the report should be displayed on the browser.